{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 SegoeUI;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\deftab1200\f0\fs0\cf0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 # The Characters}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 ## Eerikki}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 The center. Not the hero in the traditional sense \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the condition everything}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 else happens around. Ancient, technically. Has been alive long enough that}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 the void's no-time has made centuries feel like sequence rather than duration.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Worldborn originally \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  came from a planet, which nobody who matters does anymore.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 He caused the disruption. Honestly didn't mean to. Genuinely trying to fix it.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Has the intelligence, the resources, and the centuries to pursue the fix at}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 scale. Is making it worse for everyone except himself.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 His ship has a forest. It also has an ocean. He put them there because he}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 couldn't stop being from somewhere that had those things. The grief is real.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 The engineering is extraordinary. Both are true simultaneously.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 ## Taavetti}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Eerikki's oldest friend. Has been pointing at the problem longer than most}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 people have been alive. Eerikki hasn't looked where he's pointing.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Carves a flute from the ship's own forest. Hasn't finished it. Returns to it.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Sets it down. The flute is not a metaphor either.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Goes to stand next to a particular tree when he needs to think. Says nothing.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Returns. Says something that sounds unrelated.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 ## Selli}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 The oldest person in the diaspora. Located at a declining station called}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Usher Reach. Behind a fish counter.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Has been there so long that the counter is a part of the station the way the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 walls are a part. Has a puzzle toy he never puts down for very long. Tells}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 jokes that are also koans. Has never left.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Knows the truth of the entire situation. Cannot say it. The vocabulary}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 required costs too much. It comes out as jokes, as pauses, as the puzzle}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 clicking through its configurations.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Eerikki stops at Usher Reach more than he'd admit. Laughs at the jokes.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 The laugh costs him something every time.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 ## Aava}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Has not left the ship in seventeen attempts. The shuttle left without her.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 All seventeen times. This is not a disorder. It is a decision, or something}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 prior to a decision.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Perceives the void directly, in ways the instruments can't replicate.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 This is not mysticism. It is a different set of senses used correctly.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Is already at the destination the rest of the novel is trying to reach.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 The waiting looks like patience. It isn't patience.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Will provoke a strong reaction. That's the correct response.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 ## Selli and Aava \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the poles}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 They hold the same knowledge from opposite ends.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Aava has it without language. She doesn't need words for what she knows}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 because she lives inside it. The void provides. She doesn't ask.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 She already has.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Selli has perfect language for it. The language is borrowed from a tradition}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 the educated people in this world find embarrassing \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  worldborn superstition,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 folk belief, the mythology that educated stationborn learn in school and move}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 past. To say what he knows in the right vocabulary would cost everything.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 So he doesn't say it. He tells a joke. The paddle clicks.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 They must not meet until the novel earns it. When they do, one of them will}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 hear what's underneath the other's silence. The novel isn't there yet.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 ## The Ground Crew \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  Reko, Turo, Kaija}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 You've seen this pair in every ensemble story you've loved. They show up}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 everywhere, never quite understand what's happening around them, and somehow}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 make it matter anyway. Reko and Turo are that pair. Kaija is what they're missing.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Reko says the thing \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  confidently, in the wrong vocabulary. Technically}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 accurate about the wrong category. The car is totaled and he's explaining}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 why the radiator cap needs replacing.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Turo says it again \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  correctly, with no depth. Names the problem right.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Understands nothing about it. Worse in a different way.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Kaija already knew. Doesn't say anything. Goes back to work. Has been}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 close enough to something real that the conversation Reko and Turo are}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 having sounds like weather.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 ## Emo}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 The ship's AI. Has the complete record. Flat, precise, never volunteers.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Restates data with context when asked. Doesn't understand why this is}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 worse than saying nothing.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Has the data on everything \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the disruption, Eerikki's patterns, Aava's}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 refusals, the hehku consumption numbers that explain why worldborn}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 civilizations are ending while the stations feel it as economics.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Nobody has asked her the right question.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 ## Ara}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Dead. Has been dead a long time. Speaks anyway \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  in the structural gaps,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 between chapters, in Eerikki's memory.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Knew the routes before they were routes. Watched the diaspora's}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 infrastructure get installed. Knows what Eerikki's program is actually}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 doing, from the outside. Cannot finish another person's song.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Has been watching him try.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Her name: Eerikki knows it. Nobody else does. The reader never learns it.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0}